# Customer-Churn-Prediction

Customer acquisition and retention are important factors that have a direct impact on the profitability of the organization, and achieving the right balance between the two is not an easy task. The globalization and advancements of telecommunication industry, exponentially raises the number of operators in the market that escalates the competition. In this competitive era, it has become mandatory to maximize the proﬁts periodically. One of the main aims of Customer Churn prediction is to help in establishing strategies for customer retention. Along with growing competition in markets for providing services, the risk of customer churn also increases exponentially. Therefore, establishing strategies to keep track of loyal customers (non-churners) has become a necessity. The customer churn models aim to identify early churn signals and try to predict the customers that leave voluntarily. Thus, many companies have realized that their existing database is one of their most valuable asset and churn prediction is a useful tool to predict customers at risk. Customers’ churn is a considerable concern in service sectors with highly competitive services. On the other hand, predicting the customers who are likely to leave the company will represent potentially large additional revenue source if it is done in the early phase. Many research confirmed that machine learning technology is highly efficient to predict this situation. This technique is applied through learning from previous data
Churn prediction means detecting which customers are likely to cancel a subscription to a service based on how they use the service. It is a critical prediction for many businesses because acquiring new clients often costs more than retaining existing ones. Once you can identify those customers that are at risk of cancelling, you should know exactly what marketing action to take for each individual customer to maximise the chances that the customer will remain.
